[AUDIO LOGO]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> EILEEN DAY MCKUSICK :
Relationships can be such
an incredible crucible
for finding the balance
of the divine masculine
and divine feminine,
both within and without.
I know that for many, many years
my relationship with myself
wasn't whole.
Part of the whole reason why
I went into the healing arts
in the first place
was to put together
the shattered sense of self that
I emerged from childhood with,
and really put all those
pieces back together.
Healing is wholeing,
it's a process
of rebuilding yourself
back into one being and not
a million little pieces.
And so, as my own
relationship with myself
improved, as I came into more
and more integrity within myself
and more balance within myself,
that showed up in my marriage.
And my husband, fortunately,
was on the same path.
I know that I've been
married for 27 years,
and my husband has
gotten much, much better
at seeing me, hearing
what I'm saying.
And I've gotten much better
at communicating in such a way
that I can be heard.
But it's taken us a
long time to get there.
I would say that we had
a sandpaper relationship
for a long time,
and there was a lot
of rubbing off the rough edges
on each other to get to a place
where we became much better
versions of ourselves.
But you have to know
that the person has it
in them, has that
potential in them,
and that they're
willing to do that work.
But a lot of men aren't willing
to, quote, "do the work"
because it involves feeling
emotions that they're afraid
of and don't know
what to do with.
And so they get kind
of trapped in that.
And if you can really
understand what's going on
and that a lot of
what men struggle with
isn't just their own trauma.
We're downstream of many
generations of trauma.
Lots of war and difficulty
and addiction and poverty.
And there's a lot of lies and
misinformation in our culture.
And men are struggling not
just with their own stuff,
but everything they've
inherited that's come
downstream that the men before
them weren't able to deal with.
But I definitely am observing
more and more men getting
in touch with these
things that we've
been talking about while not
losing their masculinity.
And I really think that the
failure of men to be good men
is a lot of the problem
from their mothers, I do.
Like, if men don't know
how to treat women,
and men don't know how
to be there for women,
then their mother failed.
So I think it's really important
that women raise good men.
Obviously, they need a
strong father figure,
but they also need a woman who--
a mother, who teaches
them how to treat a woman.
And that comes a lot
from her own self-respect
and her own boundaries and
how she treats herself.
Because ultimately, it all
comes back to our relationship
with our self.
I mean, I will say that when
my husband and I got together
and he was 21 and I was
28, he was not a good man.
[LAUGHS] He had a lot of
cultural and ancestral miasms
and bad behaviors.
And I also wasn't
fully in integrity.
But what I see in men
today is that there
are so many tools and
resources and men's group
and an awakening awareness
in men about the inner work
that they need to do.
And I see more and more men
being willing to do that.
And if they can
find a good woman
and do it together, if a woman
can find a good man who's
willing to go through
the discomfort
of true emotional
healing, you can come out
the other side in a really
great place together.
And so, we hit a place,
maybe about 20 years in,
where I could finally feel like
I loved him like I loved God,
and that he loved me
like he loved God.
And that when we were
together that there--
like the peace of God
abided in both of us.
And that took really--
a lot of work to get there,
both personally and together.
We really helped to work out the
things within each other that
were not God, that were not
in integrity, that were not
in truth, that were not
expressing their highest
potential.
And we held each other
to that standard.
And to finally get to a place
where you can love your beloved,
where you can spoon
them in bed at night
and feel as if
you're holding God
and have that kind of
contentment, right?
Then that's a really
externalized, living example
of the balanced
masculine and feminine.
He's very, very male.
And when I'm with him, I
get to be very, very female.
But I was also raised as
a self-sufficient female.
And in the times when I'm
by myself or traveling,
my own inner masculine
takes care of me.
And so, I think that
for women and men alike,
it's useful to be able to
be extremely yin, extremely
soft, extremely concave
when you need to be,
and then extremely
pointed and extremely yang
and extremely
fiery when you need
to be, and to be able
to really flow back
and forth between these two.
I hang around with a
lot of people who are
speakers and things like that.
And the ones-- the guys
that can, in one breath,
be really vulnerable
and maybe even
be on the edge of tears, and
then, in the next breath,
be confident, clear,
empowered, all the things
that you want in a man, and
that ability to just slide
back and forth between the two.
I think that's where
health really comes from.
is that flexibility and that
ability to rise to the occasion.
Whether it's the feminine or the
masculine that needs to show up,
or maybe the perfect
balance of both.
I think a lot of
dysfunctional sexuality, well,
it comes from a number
of different things.
One is the impossible
standard of female beauty
that is held up to
us in our culture.
That makes women feel
less than if they
don't have a six-pack, or
all the things that go along
with being beautiful
and fit and sexy.
And so a lot of women have shame
just around their own bodies.
And when you have shame
about your body or shame
about your belly, you have
shame about your breasts,
it's very hard to enjoy the
ecstatic potential of sexuality.
It becomes an inhibitor.
And so, when you are
ashamed of yourself,
or you're guilty about
yourself and you're inhibited,
you don't necessarily
step into your power
around claiming your own
fulfillment of desire.
And if women aren't comfortably
embodied and happy to take up
space and advocate
for their own needs,
they often end up
getting the short end
of the stick in sexual
relations and don't necessarily
have the opportunity
to explore all
of the amazing
orgasmic potential that
exists in an exquisite
divine feminine body,
and the opportunity
to have sex become
a spiritual,
electric, empowering,
and enlivening experience.
Now, there's a lot of ways that
culture has taken women's power
away, quite frankly.
And I think a big part
of self-reclamation
involves embodiment.
But unfortunately, in the
world of spirituality,
there is a lot of dismissal or
eschewing of the physical body,
a focus on upper chakras or
ascending or going to 5D instead
of descending into the body
and the rapture that can occur
within your own fully
embodied biofield.
The kinds of feelings that
our bodies can generate,
we don't need to wait
for Christ to come back
to have the rapture.
That state is available
in our embodied experience
of being human.
And another way that I've come
to see the feminine showing up
in this work is that I
would say that because we
are electrical beings,
we are polarized.
And so when we go
and we stand barefoot
outside in the
grass or the sand,
we draw up what we call
the negative current
from the surface of the Earth.
The surface of the Earth
is charged negatively,
and that goes up through
the central channel
of the torus, the electrical
bubble that our system is.
So we have the
ascending current,
which is negative or feminine.
And then we draw in
positive energy from the sun
and from the atmosphere.
So the torus that
is our biofield
is a double spiraling
structure that
is flowing bidirectionally with
negative current and positive
current.
So that Earth energy,
we often think
of Mother Earth,
that is something
that actually people are very
depleted in in our culture.
Rubber-soled shoes
are an insulator
that stop us from discharging
positive energy into the ground
and drawing negative
current up into our bodies.
Things like devices and
machines and fluorescent lights
and the kinds of machines that
are in indoor environments
really increase the amount of
positive charge in our system.
And since that's a
down-going charge,
it can make people feel
heavy, tired, drained,
like they need to recharge.
And so, why do we go to places
like the beach or the forest?
Because we instinctively
know we need to recharge.
We need to draw
more negative energy
into our electrical system.
And that is what
makes us feel better.
And we want to have a
healthy balance of the two
with just a little bit
more negative energy
than positive energy.
And that creates more of a sense
of an uplift in the system,
as opposed to feeling
that down current.
It makes me think of
the Daoist quote that
says, know the masculine,
but keep to the feminine.
And I think that that's
really relevant in the balance
of negative and positive
charges in the body.
And so, we absolutely need
to be anchored and connected
to the Earth.
This is part of the
human experience.
When people just
want to be spiritual
and don't really care
about their bodies,
they're kind of missing the
point, because their body is
the temple that
the soul dwells in.
And you want that temple to be
clean and beautiful and well
appointed so that you can have a
divine experience through being
human, that it isn't separate.
That material-- This is just
as much God as the heavens.
And that we actually can have an
incredibly spiritual experience
by descending fully
into the body.
And healing isn't a process
of raising your vibration
or going up some kind of scale.
It's really a process of
expanding in every direction
as you release the
patterns of tension that
have kept you small.
And as you start to unfurl
and unfold, you expand.
Yes, there is an aspect that
feels like it's going up,
but there is also an
experience of becoming wider,
gaining more perspective, as
well as becoming more grounded
and more connected to the
Earth, more feet on the ground,
and really committing
to being fully here,
not ascending to 5D or
something like that.
And if we're in that
ascending mindset,
we are disconnecting
ourselves from receiving
that negative charge, that
earthy grounding that we
get from being fully human
and fully present here.
When we start thinking
about the law of attraction,
for example, a lot of people
will think about things.
But when you're only
thinking about something
and not feeling it,
you're only working off
half of the coin, right,
one side of the coin,
the electric side,
the thought side.
It's really important to
also feel the feelings.
There's a saying that your
vibe attracts your experience,
but I would shift
that up a little bit
and say your vibe
is your experience.
However you feel, that's
what you're doing,
that's what's going on.
And people respond
to how you feel.
If you feel great and happy and
you have a spring in your step
and a sparkle in your
eye and an easy smile,
people are going
to smile at you.
Life is going to reflect
that back to you.
So your vibe is your experience.
And when we want
something, we want
to be creative and make
something happen in the world,
because we can do
that as humans.
It's really important to
realize that experience
isn't necessarily going
to give you that feeling.
You want to create the
feeling in yourself first,
and then you will
have that experience.
And we all know how to do that.
We could ask a room
of five-year-olds
to go through expressing
different feelings,
and they would do it
beautifully because we all
know how to do that.
So if you want to
feel a particular way
as a consequence of some
desire being fulfilled,
then just feel that way.
And the more that you invoke
the power of your own emotions,
because we do have
the power to do that,
the more we will start to
create a life around us
that reflects that.
And one of the most powerful
emotions that we can feel
is gratitude.
Actually, quite a
lot of studies have
been done in how keeping
a gratitude journal
or being more mindful
about expressing gratitude
throughout the day
lifts people's spirits.
So gratitude,
appreciation, and presence,
I think that this
knowing the masculine
but keeping to the
feminine is that ability
to really show up in the
moment and be receptive.
Sometimes that's a
little harder for men.
And there's a reason why we
have that term, mansplaining.
[LAUGHS]
Because as men, as yang, as
outward, as giving, as doing.
It's not always easy to
remember or to set yourself up
to take some time, to be
receptive, to listen deeply,
to really be
present, and to come
into more of that state of
being and feeling and being
comfortable with that.
Same with women.
Just being able to really
come into this moment.
Because the tendency to be
thinking about the future
is something that we've really
all been conditioned to.
Lots of people are always
thinking about to-do lists
and where they have to go
and what they have to do
and how they need to make money.
And it's very, very yang.
And so the ability to sit in
the present moment, to rest in.
Really, not just sit
in the present moment
but spread out into
the present moment
and to just really be
present and be receptive
and be listening and allow
spaciousness is something
that we can all do that
helps to pull us out
of that cultural, chronic,
imbalanced yang state
and into a more yin state.
And the collective is a
collection of all of us.
And the more that each of us,
whether we're men or women,
take time to settle into the
moment, to be with our feelings,
to express tender
love, gratitude,
appreciation for the people
in our lives, the more
that we are collectively
balancing us as a human family.
And the beauty of it is that it
doesn't involve doing anything.
It's just an ability
to be and to be
more soft and more present.
And that goes a long
way with the people
that you encounter when
you're really there
and you really care.
And so, when we're
in a state of health
and we have a balance of
negative current and positive
current, when we can be
regulated and coherent,
when we don't have a backlog
of emotions, when our ability
to receive is turned on when our
ability to just sit and be fully
present in this moment is turned
on when our mental body is
balanced, when our
thoughts are orderly
and healthy and creative
and constructive,
that's when we experience
the balance of the masculine
and the feminine within us.
We become coherent,
and health happens
when we're in a coherent state.
And those coherent emotions are
love, gratitude, appreciation,
and compassion.
And that's really
all about being
in the right relationship with
yourself at the end of the day.
Are you compassionate, patient,
loving, and kind with yourself?
Because if you are, then
you will be that way
with other people as well.
And that's the best way
that we can show up and help
to balance all of this imbalance
that we see in the world
around us is starting
with ourselves.
I think we live in a
world that hides the light
and hides the truth.
And that it's almost
a game of how can I
find the light and the truth
within myself, within others,
within the world around me.
Our body's electrical
system, our biofield,
is your inner light.
And it's also your soul.
Your soul is biological.
And there is no separation
of science and spirituality.
And on a certain level,
our soul is perfect.
It's designed for
absolute harmony.
And what we really have
that we struggle with is
noise in the signal, most
of which isn't our fault.
But the more that
we bring ourselves
into electric and energetic
order, the more brightly
we shine.
And we really are the
light of the world.
We are the light that we
seek, that the light we seek
is within.
And it's not just
some nebulous thing.
It's powering your heart.
It's powering your brain.
And the magnetic aspect of it
is driving the waves of emotion
and feeling through your body.
When life plucks your
strings, it's how you respond.
And the more that your
inner instrument is in tune,
the more beautifully
you will respond
when life plucks your string.
So it's really important that we
tend to our own soul and spirit
and feed it.
And one of the best
ways to do that
is to allow all the
waves that are seeking
to move through it to move
through so that we stay
present and current
and not stuck
in constriction and
restriction and suppression,
but really allow the
light in us to shine.
[MUSIC PLAYING]